# Cybersecurity Incident Report: Network Layer Communication

> This project is a simulated exercise, and all information presented is purely fictional for educational purposes.

## Scenario

You are a cybersecurity analyst at a company that provides IT consulting services. Multiple customers reported issues accessing the company website, www.yummyrecipesforme.com, and encountered the error "destination port unreachable" while waiting for the page to load.

Your task is to analyze the situation and identify the affected network protocol. Upon visiting the website, you also receive the "destination port unreachable" error. Using the network analyzer tool tcpdump, you reload the webpage and observe numerous packets. The analyzer reveals that sending UDP packets results in an ICMP response indicating an error: "udp port 53 unreachable."

```
13:24:32.192571 IP 192.51.100.15.52444 › 203.0.113.2.domain: 35084+ A? yummyrecipesforme.com. (24)
13:24:36.098564 IP 203.0.113.2 > 192.51.100.15: ICMP 203.0.113.2 udp port 53 unreachable length 254
13:26:32.192571 IP 192.51.100.15.52444 › 203.0.113.2.domain: 35084+ A? yummyrecipesforme.com. (24)
13:27:15.934126 IP 203.0.113.2 > 192.51.100.15: ICMP 203.0.113.2 udp port 53 unreachable length 320
13:28:32.192571 IP 192.51.100.15.52444 > 203.0.113.2.domain: 35084+ A? yummyrecipesforme.com. (24)
13:28:50.022967 IP 203.0.113.2 > 192.51.100.15: ICMP 203.0.113.2 udp port 53 unreachable length 150
```


In the DNS and ICMP log, you find the following details:

1. The log shows the initial UDP request from your computer to the DNS server for the IP address of yummyrecipesforme.com.
2. Timestamps indicate when the events occurred, e.g., 13:24:32.192571 represents 1:24 p.m., 32.192571 seconds.
3. Source and destination IP addresses are listed, with the left side representing your computer's IP address and the right side representing the DNS server’s IP address.
4. The second and third lines show the ICMP error response indicating that the ICMP packet could not be delivered to the DNS server's port.
5. The error message "udp port 53 unreachable" shows that UDP was used to request domain resolution on port 53. This port, associated with DNS service, was unreachable, indicating the DNS server was not responding.

Additional lines show that ICMP packets were sent two more times, but the same error message was received.

You need to identify the impacted network protocol and service and draft a follow-up report.

## Summary of the DNS and ICMP Traffic Log problem:

* The DNS server is down due to port 53 being unreachable. The ICMP response indicates that the packet did not reach the DNS server's port.
* Port 53, used for DNS, is not responding. This could be due to a DDoS attack targeting the DNS server.
* The UDP protocol confirms that DNS is unresponsive, as indicated by the ICMP error message: UDP port 53 unreachable.
* The port mentioned in the error message is for the DNS server, indicating that the server is not responding.

## Analysis of the Data:

* Incident Time: 1:23 p.m.
* Awareness of the Incident: Customers reported being unable to access the website, seeing the "port unreachable" message.
* Actions Taken by the IT Department: Security engineers observed the webpage error and used TCPdump to analyze network traffic.
* Key Findings: TCPdump analysis revealed significant traffic and ICMP responses indicating "port 53 unreachable."

#### Likely Cause:
 - Verify if port 53 is operational. If it is, check firewall settings.
 - Firewall: Could block traffic on specific ports to prevent attacks.
 - DOS Attack: A potential flood of traffic may have caused the DNS server to crash or become unresponsive, or port 53 might have been disabled on firewalls.

> Here is my [certificate.](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/WEFLM2V5PYQU) Please visit [Network Security](https://www.coursera.org/learn/networks-and-network-security?specialization=google-cybersecurity) for more information.
