# Decryption

## Scenario

In this scenario, all files in your home directory have been encrypted. You'll need to use Linux commands to break the Caesar cipher and decrypt the files so you can read the hidden messages they contain.

Here's what you'll do: First, you'll explore the contents of the home directory and read a file. Next, you'll locate a hidden file and decrypt the Caesar cipher it contains. Finally, you'll decrypt an encrypted data file to recover your data and reveal the hidden message.

Let's start decrypting messages in Linux!

> You are logged in as the user `Massimo`, with your home directory `/home/Massimo` as the current working directory.

## Solution 

1. **Read the contents of a file**
   - Use the `ls` command to list the files in the directory:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~$ ls /home/Massimo
Q1. encrypted README.txt caesar
```
   - Display the contents of the `README.txt` file:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~$ cat README.txt
Hello,
All of your data has been encrypted.
To recover your data, you will need to solve a cipher.
To get started look for a hidden file in the caesar subdirectory.
```
   The message in the `README.txt` file indicates that the `caesar` subdirectory contains a hidden file.

2. **Find a hidden file**
   - Navigate to the `caesar` subdirectory and list all files, including hidden ones:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~$ cd /home/Massimo/caesar
Massimo@123456789:~/caesar$ ls -a
. .. .leftShift3
```

   - Use the `cat` command to view the contents of the hidden file:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~/caesar$ cat .leftShift3 
Lg rughu wr uhfryhu brxu ilchu brx zloo ghhg wr hqwhu wkh iroorzigi frppdgg:
Ishquvo chu-256-fef -sengi2 -d -g -1g T1_hqfubswhg -rxw T1.uhfryhuhg -n hwwxeukwh
```

   The message appears scrambled due to encryption with a Caesar cipher. The cipher can be solved by shifting each letter to the left or right by a fixed number of spaces. In this case, the shift is three letters to the left.

   - Decrypt the cipher using the `cat` and `tr` commands:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~/caesar$ cat leftShift3 | tr "d-za-cD-ZA-C" "a-zA-Z"
In order to recover your files you will need to enter the following command:

openssl aes-256-cbc -pbkdf2 -a -d -in Q1.encrypted -out Q1.recovered -k ettubrute
```

   > The `tr` command translates text from one set of characters to another, using a mapping. Here, it shifts each letter three spaces to the left to decrypt the message.

3. **Decrypt a file**
   - Return to the initial working directory and decrypt a file:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~/caesar$ openssl aes-256-cbc -pbkdf2 -a -d -in Q1.encrypted -out Q1.recovered -k ettubrute
```
   This command decrypts the file using AES-256-CBC, a secure symmetric cipher. The `-pbkdf2` option adds extra security to the key, and `-a` specifies the desired encoding for the output. The `-d` indicates decryption, `-in` specifies the input file, and `-out` specifies the output file. The `-k` option provides the password, which in this example is `ettubrute`.

   - Verify the contents of the decrypted file:  
```
Massimo@123456789:~/caesar$ cat Q1.recovered
If you are able to read this, then you have successfully decrypted the classic cipher text.
You recovered the encryption key that was used to encrypt this file. Great work!
```

> Here is my [certificate.](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/B258J22VCWY2) Please visit [Assets, Threats, and Vulnerabilities](https://www.coursera.org/learn/assets-threats-and-vulnerabilities?specialization=google-cybersecurity) for more information.
