# File permissions in Linux

> This project is a simulated exercise, and all information presented is purely fictional for educational purposes.

## Project description
This project aims to secure the permissions in the `/home/researcher2/projects` directory and to meet company regulations, strengthening security on the system.
This report documents the use of Linux commands to make these approved changes.

## File and directory details 

> The following code demonstrates how I used Linux commands to list the permissions set for a specific directory in the file system.
> Note: This is the flawed directory, that I will modify to align with my organization's security standards.

```
researcher2@123456789:~$ cd /home/researcher2/projects
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ ls -la
total 32
-rw--w---- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Mar 28 20:54 .project_x.txt
drwx--x--- 2 researcher2 research_team 4096 Mar 28 20:54 drafts
-rw-rw-rw- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Mar 28 20:54 project_k.txt
-rw-r----- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Mar 28 20:54 project_m.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Mar 28 20:54 project_r.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Mar 28 20:54 project_t.txt
```

- The first line of the screenshot displays the command I entered, and the other lines display the output.
  - The code lists all contents of the `projects` directory. 
- I used the `ls` command with the `-la` option to display a detailed listing of the file contents that also returned hidden files. 
  - The output indicates that there is one directory named `drafts`, one hidden file named `.project_x.txt`, and five other files. 
- The 10-character string in the first column represents the permissions set on each file or directory.

## Describe the permissions string 
`drwxrwxrwx`, This is a 10-character permissions string in Linux that provides detailed information about who can access a file or directory and what actions they can perform. This string can be broken down as follows: 

`d---------` **1st character**: This character indicates the file type.
  - If it's a `d`, the entry is a directory. If it's a hyphen (`-`), the entry is a file.
  
`-rwx------` **2nd-4th characters**: These characters represent the permissions for the **user** (the owner of the file):
  - `r` (read): The user can read the file.
  - `w` (write): The user can modify the file.
  - `x` (execute): The user can execute the file as a program.
  - If any of these characters is a hyphen (`-`), that permission is not granted to the user.

`----rwx---` **5th-7th characters**: These characters specify the permissions for the **group** associated with the file:
  - `r` (read): The group members can view the contents of the file.
  - `w` (write): The group members can alter the file.
  - `x` (execute): The group members can run the file as a program.
  - A hyphen (`-`) in any of these positions means that the group does not have the corresponding permission.

`-------rwx` **8th-10th characters**: These characters define the permissions for **other** users (everyone else on the system):
  - `r` (read): Other users can view the file's contents.
  - `w` (write): Other users can modify the file.
  - `x` (execute): Other users can execute the file as a program.
  - If a hyphen (`-`) appears in any of these spots, it means that the corresponding permission is not granted to other users.

## My Modifications 

### 1. Changed file permissions
The organization determined that other shouldn't have write access to any of their files. To
comply with this, I referred to the file permissions that I previously returned. I determined
that `project_k.txt` must have the write access removed for other.

> The following code demonstrates how I used Linux commands to secure this file:

```
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ chmod o-w project_k.txt 
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ ls -la
total 32
drwxr-xr-x 3 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec  2 15:27 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec  2 15:27 ..
-rw--w---- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Dec  2 15:27 .project_x.txt
drwx--x--- 2 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec  2 15:27 drafts
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Dec  2 15:27 project_k.txt
-rw-r----- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Dec  2 15:27 project_m.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Dec  2 15:27 project_r.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team   46 Dec  2 15:27 project_t.txt
```
- In this example, I used `chmod o-w project_k.txt` to remove write permissions from other for the `project_k.txt` file.
- After this, I used `ls -la` to confirm the updates were successful.

### 2. Change file permissions on a hidden file

The research team at my organization recently archived `project_x.txt`. They do not want anyone to have write access to this project, but the user and group should have read access. 

> The following code demonstrates how I used Linux commands to change the permissions:

```
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ chmod u-w,g-w,g+r .project_x.txt
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ ls -la
total 32
drwxr-xr-x 3 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec 20 15:36 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec 20 15:36 ..
-r--r----- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:36 .project_x.txt
drwx--X--- 2 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec 20 15:36 drafts
-rw-rw-rw- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:36 project_k.txt
-rw-r----- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:36 project_m.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:36 project_r.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:36 project_t.txt
```

- In this example, I removed write permissions from the user and group and added read permissions to the group.
  - I removed write permissions from the user with `u-w`.
  - Then, I removed write permissions from the group with `g-w`,
  - and added read permissions to the group with `g+r`. 
- After this, I used `ls -la` to review the updates I made.

### 3. Change directory permissions

My organization only wants the researcher2 user to have access to the drafts directory and its contents. 
This means that no one other than researcher2 should have execute permissions.

> The following code demonstrates how I used Linux commands to secure a directory:

```
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ chmod g-x drafts
researcher2@123456789:~/projects$ ls -la
total 32
drwxr-xr-x 3 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec 20 15:27 .
drwxr-xr-x 3 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec 20 15:27 ..
-r--r----- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:27 .project_x.txt
drwx------ 2 researcher2 research_team 4096 Dec 20 15:27 drafts
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:27 project_k.txt
-rw-r----- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:27 project_m.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:21 project_r.txt
-rw-rw-r-- 1 researcher2 research_team 46 Dec 20 15:27 project_t.txt
```
- I used the `chmod g-x drafts` command to remove them and `ls -la` to list updated versions.
- Line 4 is the directory (`drafts`) with restricted - and now updated - permissions.
- The `researcher2` user already had execute permissions, so they did not need to be added.

## Summary
To align with our organization's security standards, I adjusted the permissions on files and folders within the `projects` directory. I began by reviewing the current permissions using the `ls -la` command. This information guided my subsequent modifications using the `chmod` command.

> Here is my [certificate.](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/SV3CHGP8TDJC) Please visit [Linux and SQL](https://www.coursera.org/learn/linux-and-sql) for more information.
