# Apply filters to SQL queries

> This project is a simulated exercise, and all information presented is purely fictional for educational purposes.

## Project Description:

My organization is focused on enhancing system security, and my role is to safeguard the system, investigate potential security threats, and update employee computers when necessary. Below are examples of how I utilized SQL with filters to perform security-related tasks.

## Retrieve After-Hours Failed Login Attempts:

A possible security incident took place outside of regular business hours (after 18:00). It was crucial to investigate all failed login attempts that occurred during this time. 
> The following code illustrates how I crafted a SQL query to filter for these after-hours failed login attempts.

```
MassimoDB [organization] > SELECT
    -> FROM 10g_in_attempts
    -> WHERE login_time > '18:00' AND success = FALSE;

+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+
| event_id | username | login_date | login_time | country | ip_address  |
+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+
| 2       | apatel   | 2022-05-10 | 20:27:27  | CAN    | 192.168.205.12 |
| 18      | pwashing | 2022-05-11 | 19:28:50  | US     | 192.168.66.142 |
| 20      | tshah    | 2022-05-12 | 18:56:36  | MEXICO | 192.168.109.50 |
+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+
```

The first section of the code displays my query, while the second section shows a portion of the output. This query is designed to filter for failed login attempts that happened after 18:00. I began by selecting all data from the `log_in_attempts` table. Next, I applied a `WHERE` clause combined with an `AND` operator to narrow down the results to only those login attempts that occurred after 18:00 and were unsuccessful. The first condition, `login_time > '18:00'`, captures login attempts made after 18:00, while the second condition, `success = FALSE`, isolates those that failed.

## Retrieve Login Attempts on Specific Dates:

A suspicious event took place on 2022-05-09, and any login activity from that date or the day before needs to be examined. 

> The following code shows how I created a SQL query to filter for login attempts on those specific dates.

```
MassimoDB [organization] > SELECT *
    -> FROM log_in_attempts
    -> WHERE login_date = '2022-05-09'
    -> OR login_date = '2022-05-08';

+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+---------+
| event_id | username | login_date | login_time | country | ip_address   | success |
+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+---------+
| 1       | jrafael  | 2022-05-09 | 04:56:27  | CAN    | 192.168.243.140 | -       |
| 3       | dkot     | 2022-05-09 | 06:47:41  | USA    | 192.168.151.162 | -       |
| 4       | dkot     | 2022-05-08 | 02:00:39  | USA    | 192.168.178.71  | -       |
+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+---------+
```

The first section of the code shows my query, and the second section displays part of the output. This query retrieves all login attempts that occurred on 2022-05-09 or 2022-05-08. I began by selecting all data from the `log_in_attempts` table. Then, I applied a `WHERE` clause with an `OR` operator to narrow the results to only those login attempts that happened on either 2022-05-09 or 2022-05-08. The first condition, `login_date = '2022-05-09'`, filters for logins on 2022-05-09, while the second condition, `login_date = '2022-05-08'`, filters for logins on 2022-05-08.

## Retrieve Login Attempts Outside of Mexico:

After analyzing the organization’s data on login attempts, I suspect there may be an issue with the attempts that occurred outside of Mexico. These login attempts warrant further investigation.

> The following code shows how I created a SQL query to filter for login attempts that occurred outside of Mexico.

```
MassimoDB [organization] > SELECT *
    -> FROM 10g_in_attempts
    -> WHERE NOT country LIKE 'MEX%';

+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+---------+
| event_id | username | login_date | login_time | country | ip_address   | success |
+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+---------+
| 1       | jrafael  | 2022-05-09 | 04:56:27  | CAN    | 192.168.243.140 | 0       |
| 2       | apatel   | 2022-05-10 | 20:27:27  | CAN    | 192.168.205.12  | 0       |
| 3       | dkot     | 2022-05-09 | 06:47:41  | USA    | 192.168.151.162 | 0       |
+---------+----------+------------+----------+--------+---------------+---------+
```

The first section of the code displays my query, while the second section shows part of the output. This query retrieves all login attempts made from countries other than Mexico. I started by selecting all data from the `log_in_attempts` table. Then, I used a `WHERE` clause with `NOT` to filter out entries for countries other than Mexico. I utilized `LIKE` with the pattern `MEX%` to match both "MEX" and "MEXICO," as the dataset represents Mexico in these formats. The percentage sign (%) acts as a wildcard for any number of unspecified characters when used with `LIKE`.

## Retrieve Employees in Marketing:

My team needs to update the computers for certain employees in the Marketing department. To accomplish this, I must gather information on which employee machines require updating.

> The following code demonstrates how I created a SQL query to filter for employee machines belonging to staff in the Marketing department located in the East building.

```
MassimoDB [organization] > SELECT
    -> FROM employees
    -> WHERE department = 'Marketing'
    -> AND office LIKE 'East%';

+------------+-----------+----------+------------+--------+
| employee_id | device_id | username | department | office  |
+------------+-----------+----------+------------+--------+
| 1000     | a320b137c219 | elarson  | Marketing | East-170 |
| 1052     | a192b174c940 | jdarosa  | Marketing | East-195 |
| 1075     | x573y883Z772 | fbautist | Marketing | East-267 |
+------------+-----------+----------+------------+--------+
```

The first part of the code displays my query, and the second part shows a portion of the output. This query returns all employees in the Marketing department located in the East building. I began by selecting all data from the `employees` table. Then, I used a `WHERE` clause with `AND` to filter for employees working in both the Marketing department and the East building. I applied `LIKE` with the pattern `East%` to match entries in the `office` column, which represents the East building along with specific office numbers. The first condition, `department = 'Marketing'`, filters for employees in the Marketing department, while the second condition, `office LIKE 'East%'`, filters for those in the East building.

## Retrieve Employees in Finance or Sales:

The computers for employees in the Finance and Sales departments also require updates. Since a different security update is necessary, I need to gather information on employees from only these two departments.

> The following code shows how I created a SQL query to filter for employee machines belonging to staff in either the Finance or Sales departments.

```
MassimoDB [organization] > SELECT
    -> FROM employees
    -> WHERE department = 'Finance' OR department = 'Sales';

+------------+-----------+----------+------------+--------+
| employee_id | device_id | username | department | office  |
+------------+-----------+----------+------------+--------+
| 1003    | d394816f943 | sgilmore  | Finance   | South-153 | 
| 1007    | h1741497j413 | waffrey  | Finance   | North-406 |
| 1008    | 1858j583k571 | abernard | Finance   | South-170 |
+------------+-----------+----------+------------+--------+
```

The first part of the code shows my query, and the second part displays a portion of the output. This query retrieves all employees in the Finance and Sales departments. I began by selecting all data from the `employees` table. Then, I applied a `WHERE` clause with the `OR` operator to filter for employees in either the Finance or Sales departments. I used `OR` instead of `AND` because I needed to include all employees from either department. The first condition, `department = 'Finance'`, filters for employees in the Finance department, while the second condition, `department = 'Sales'`, filters for those in the Sales department.

## Retrieve All Employees Not in IT:

My team needs to perform one more security update for employees who are not in the Information Technology department. To proceed with the update, I first need to gather information on these employees.

> The following explains how I created a SQL query to filter for employee machines belonging to staff outside of the Information Technology department.

```
MassimoDB [organization] > SELECT *
    -> FROM employees
    -> WHERE NOT department = 'Information Technology';

+------------+-----------+----------+------------------------+--------+
| employee_id | device_id | username  | department       | office      |
+------------+-----------+----------+------------------------+--------+
| 1000       | a320b137c219 | elarson | Marketing        | East-170    |
| 100        | b239c825d303 | bmoreno | Marketing        | Central-276 |
| 1002       | C116d593558  | tshah   | Human Resources  | North-434   |
+------------+-----------+----------+------------------------+--------+
```

The first part of the screenshot displays my query, and the second part shows a portion of the output. This query retrieves all employees who are not in the Information Technology department. I began by selecting all data from the `employees` table. Then, I applied a `WHERE` clause with `NOT` to filter out employees in the Information Technology department.

## Summary:

I utilized filters in SQL queries to obtain specific information on login attempts and employee machines. This involved working with two different tables: `log_in_attempts` and `employees`. To retrieve the required data, I employed the `AND`, `OR`, and `NOT` operators. Additionally, I used `LIKE` along with the wildcard character `%` to filter for specific patterns.

> Here is my [certificate.](https://www.coursera.org/account/accomplishments/certificate/SV3CHGP8TDJC) Please visit [Linux and SQL](https://www.coursera.org/learn/linux-and-sql) for more information.
